
Intervaluino Plus Version 1.0 by Enekochan <http://tech.enekochan.com/>

ABOUT
=====

Intervaluino Plus is a small configurable intervalometer for your DSLR camera.
You can use an Arduino [1] board as soon as it is compatible with Arduino Uno.
I used a RBBB [2] board and also tested it with an Arduino Duemilanove.

The name of Intervaluino Plus comes from the concept of extending the
capabilities of the previous Arduino intervalometer called Intervaluino [3]
made by Timm Suess [4].


USE
===

Intervaluino Plus is configurable via 4 buttons: left, right, up and down and
comes with a 4 digit 7 segment serial display (Sparfunk COM-0976X) [4] that only
needs one line to be controlled. Left and right buttons are used to change the
menu option whereas up and down change the value of the options themselves.

When Intervaluino Plus is switched on it asks how many pictures have to be
taken by displaying the text "PICS". We can then use up and down to increase or
decrease the amount from 1 picture up to 9999. If you are thinking that you
don’t want to push the botton 9999 times you are as lazy as me  So I
implemented a "fast forwad" that makes the counter go faster if you leave the
button pushed for some time. Also to know that you are on the first option the
first dot down on the right of the display will remain on.

Once we have selected the amount of pictures to take we can push the left
button to go to the next menu option, which is called "PERI". It represents
the period of time we want between every picture. We can configure it from 1
second up to 9999. This time you will see that the second dot is on,
representing that we are changing the second option.

We are now ready to take pictures! Just push the left botton once more and the
display will show "PHOT" and the Intervaluino Plus will start taking pictures.
Once finished the job Intervaluino Plus will go back to the first option again.

There is a "hidden" feature so you can adjust the display brightness on power
up. If you turn on the Intervaluino Plus while you maintain pushed the up
button the display will bright at the highest level whereas maintaining the
down button will make the display barely bright. Use this option to safe
battery or if the light conditions prevent you from reading clearly the digits.


SCHEMA
======
A schema and a breadboard diagram can be found in the repository. Also a .FZZ
file (used by Fritzing [5]) is available.

       +--------------------+-5V
       |                    |
    +--+--+  ARDUINO        |
    | 5V  |                 |
    |     |             S4  |
    | D8  |---------+---/ --+
    | GND |---<10k>-+       |
    |     |             S3  |
    | D7  |---------+---/ --+
    | GND |---<10k>-+       |
    |     |             S2  |
    | D6  |---------+---/ --+
    | GND |---<10k>-+       |
    |     |             S1  |
    | D5  |---------+---/ --+
    | GND |---<10k>-+                    4N35      /---O--\/      +-+
    |     |                             +----+    /               | |
    | D9  |---<330>---------------------|1  5|---/   --O------/\  | |
    |     |              COM-0976X      |    |                    | |
    |     |               +-----+    +--|2  4|---------O----------+-+
    | D3  |---------------| RX  |    |  +----+        STEREO FEMALE 2.5mm
    |     |           5V--| VCC |    |
    |     |               | GND |    |
    | GND |               +--+--+    |
    +-----+                  |       |
       |---------------------+-------+
      ===
    Ground


The Arduino board is basicaly connected like this:

 - D3 -> 4 digit 7 segment serial display RX.
 - D5 -> Right push switch.
 - D6 -> Left push switch.
 - D7 -> Up push switch.
 - D8 -> Down push switch.
 - D9 -> Optocoupler.

Connect all the push switches to 5 volts and install 10K ohm pull-down
resistors on D5, D6, D7 and D8.

You must install a 330 ohm resistor in series on D9 for the optocoupler.


PARTS LIST
==========

 - 1x Arduino compatible board, a RBBB for example.
 - 1x Sparfunk COM-0976X 4 digit 7 segment serial display [6].
 - 1x 4n35 or 4n25 optocoupler.
 - 4x push switches.
 - 4x 10KΩ resistors.
 - 1x 330Ω resistor.
 - 1x connector for your camera cable. Female 2.5mm stereo jack for Canon DSLR.


TODO
====

 - Change the limit of 9999 pictures and 9999 maximun seconds between every
   picture.
 - A "BULB" option so the shutter stays open for a period of time configured in
   the options.
 - Texts longer than 4 characters that will scroll on the display.
 - Add another button to use it as an "enter" key.


LICENSE
=======

See the LICENSE file.


LINKS
=====

 - [1] http://www.arduino.cc
 - [2] http://shop.moderndevice.com/products/rbbb-kit
 - [3] http://timmsuess.com/intervaluino/
 - [4] http://timmsuess.com/
 - [5] http://fritzing.org/
 - [6] http://www.sparkfun.com/products/9766
